Introduction
    Crime event prediction is important to crime prevention in the society by helping the law enforcement
agencies to design optimal patrol strategies.Reduction of crime events will benefit society in numerous ways.
It will increase the public safety and decrease the economic loss.However, crime event prediction is a challenging
task.Many factors are relevant to the possibility that a particular type of crime event is going to occur in a region
in the near future. These include demographics,the distribution of different types of services, crime history,
human mobility and so on.

The criminal offence which includes the illegal taking of other persons belonging without consent to permanently or
temporarily deprive the owner is defined as Theft.

When a person enters a building (e.g. office, bank, shop etc.) with an intention to commit crime can be classified
as Unlawful Entry.

Drug Offence includes any form of sale, dealing, importing or exporting, manufacture or cultivation of illegal
drugs or other substances.

The offences which are related to most forms of road traffic, including pertaining to the licensing, registration,
road worthiness or use of vehicles, bicycle offences, and pedestrian offences can be classified as Traffic Related
Offence.

Fraud is a type of behavior towards a person or organization which is deceptive, dishonest, corrupt or unethical.

All types of physical and mental harm towards a person are defined as Assault. This includes all types of physical
contact with a person without their consent.

short-term crime event prediction we partition a day into total eight intervals and each interval spans 3 hours.
Crime prediction in finer temporal grain will help the police to design their patrol strategy dynamically and it
will increase the probability to reduce crime rate more effectively.

Features are categorised as follows:
Historical: They describe the density and trend of crime event in a region and the surrounding regions.

Demographic: The demographic features reflect the socio-economic conditions of residents in a region.

Geographic: The geographic features retain the information about the properties of venues in a region.

Dynamic: According to routine activity theory, the opportunities for crime events are optimized in places
         where victims and offenders come together in greater concentrations.

Crime event prediction using HISTORICAL information:

Traditional methods for crime event prediction assume that crime events are most likely to happen in the
vicinity of past crime events.

They focus on Burglary prediction. The city is divided using a grid. For each grid cell, the number of
Burglary in the past is counted by month. They run several classifiers including 1NN, J48, SVM, Neural Network
and Naive Bayes to predict the possibility of Burglary in the next month for each grid cell based on the crime
historical data in this cell and neighboring cells. It shows J48, SVM, Neural Network always outperform the others
and Neural Network often performs better than J48 and SVM. But this model solely depends on the past history of crime
events in the vicinity.

The authors use the theory of self-exciting point process (SEPP) method in crime prediction particularly in
residential burglary prediction. SEPP is a popular approach for modeling space-time clustering of seismic activity.
They demonstrate that a better prediction performance can be achieved using this model. Commercial software for
crime prediction like PredPolFootnote 2 uses SEPP as an underlying algorithm. This tool predicts crime based on the
location and time of past crime event data.

Crime event prediction using GEOGRAPHIC and DEMOGRAPHIC information:

a General Additive Model (GAM) is used to predict the locations of future crime events with temporal information.
It considers three data sets. The first is the demographic data of the city measured in a census block group
including population, median values of all houses, races, marriages and so on. The second is the geographical
information of the city such as locations of roads, interstate highways, small businesses and schools. The third
is the crime data set. To build the crime prediction model, the city is partitioned using a grid. For each grid in
a month, the predictor includes the shortest distances between the centroid of the grid and geographic landmarks
(such as the distance to the nearest roads), the census information extracted from demographic data, and the
temporal information (i.e. the number of months from the last occurrence of crime event).

Some crime prediction tool e.g, Hunchlab considers other information with historic information.It takes account
wider range of variables with near-repeat victimization. The variables include seasonality, social and environmental
risk factors.

Crime event prediction using social media

The above studies explore the geographic and demographic information observed over a long time period i.e. months.
Some researchers further embedded the features extracted from social media data like Twitter in their prediction
model. In [4], the probability of a certain type of crime event at a given location in a city is predicted by
considering information in the surrounding regions from two aspects: the density of crime events of the same type
and the topics of tweets in the surrounding regions. The density of crimes is evaluated using
Kernel Density Estimation(KDE). The topics of the tweets in surrounding regions are modeled using
Latent Dirichlet Allocation (LDA). Using the density as one feature and each topic as a separate feature,
a logit model is trained.

Neighborhood crime event density

The crime rate in one region can be influenced by the crime rate of its neighborhood regions.
The neighborhood crime event density reflects the situation of surrounding regions.

Seasonal crime event density

Previously, seasonal patterns have been observed in some crime types e.g., Assault.
Inspiring from this we calculate seasonal crime event density for each type of crime event.
The season of the current date is considered. For region r in time interval Δtnext,
the crime event density of the same season is computed and divided by the number of days of the season,
i.e., the average number of crime events per day in this season is used as the seasonal crime event density.

REFERENCE: https://epjdatascience.springeropen.com/articles/10.1140/epjds/s13688-018-0171-7
